what's up guys this is tyler from cjk
bringing you a minecraft guide video
today we will be talking about horses
yes the horses in Minecraft they are
typically found in the Plains biome as
you can see here I have crafted a stable
and a an advanced pen is how I'm going
to call it and i will do a separate
video on how to build that advanced pen
it essentially keeps the horses in
without having to have a gate in front
of them so like i said before the horses
are found in the plane biome and they
come in white black grey brown lots of
different colors you can also find
donkeys but horses are where it's at if
do say so myself so to tame a horse what
you're going to do is you're going to
want to go up to it and right click it
it will buck you off numerous amount of
times before it eventually lets you stay
on to on it once you know that it's
tamed you will see hearts it will kind
of flutter above its head you know like
the love hearts that you get when your
mating the animals so you just keep
right clicking right clicking it right
clicking it until it finally lets you
mount it now in order to control the
horse you're going to need a saddle like
once you once you tame it the hearts
right there is it just it does was tamed
so this is the horses inventory I found
some diamond armor and a in an abandoned
mine shaft some diamond horse armor and
i found a saddle and a monster spawner
so the only way to control the horse is
if you have a saddle you can still sit
on its back when it's tamed but you
won't be able to control it anywhere the
horse can be controlled by your normal
button control the way you control your
minecraft character also if you hold
down space the jump bar will fill up if
you get to the top you can jump at its
highest height here's an example of how
the traditional horse pen isn't really
that effective because you still
basically have to jump the fence to get
in there
you know even if you open the fence gate
you still have to jump it and if you
jump the horse you have a potential of
hitting your head on the ceiling and
then you will get hurt by that you will
lose you lose hearts so here I'm going
to go get another horse I have another
saddle that I found in a monster spawner
chest I will tame this one and then the
purpose of getting this one is I'm going
to make the two horses and create
another horse just like you would with
other animals such as pigs sheep or cows
you can do the same with horses to do
that you have to use a golden carrot not
a golden apple but a golden carrot um to
do to make the two horses the golden
care you build it the same ways you
would build a golden apple that would be
a carrot in the middle surrounded by
gold so I have a stack of golden karen's
there and I am going to go in here and
I'm gonna make these two horses that is
done by just going up to the front of
them and right-clicking the same as the
other moms so they you know the hearts
flutter and then soon enough they pops
out a little one and there's a little
guy right there now you can speed up the
growth process of the smaller horse by
feeding it just weeks not bread just
wheat and you just sit there and you
right click it and you order to do to it
you know grow all the way up to his full
size to his or her full size I don't
think that animals in Minecraft ever
gender but um yeah so they goes up to
their full size now something else you
can do is you can make a lead now this
is done by using string and slime that
you gather slime balls that you gather
from the slime mobs in Minecraft and
that is used to tie them to a post or
you can use them you can use leads to
guide horses across water the horses can
only walk on two blocks full of water if
they get to a third block down of water
day you will get knocked off the horse
so here if you right-click the horse you
can pull pull it along it will follow
you this is great if you're going across
a large distance and a boat you can
build a boat put the boat down in the
water and then right-click the whore
so that you have with your lead and it
will zoom right behind you as you boat
across the the water there on the boat
and the ones you get out you can just
you right-click the horse with an open
hand and this the Rope will fall off
then you can write it again so here I'm
just demonstrating how it can swim in
two blocks or 11 block or two block of
water but if you get it on to three
blocks of water he will fall off and the
only way to get him out of that water is
if you use a lead to pull him out so
yeah so basically don't go swimming with
your horse unless you brought a lead
because you will lose it and that will
not be good so yeah I'm gonna put this
horse back in the pen here and show you
you can also build hay bales the hay
bales are like decorative items that you
can put in the pen for your horses the
only danger is if you put them too close
to the fence they the horses can jump up
on the hay bale because they are a block
and then they can potentially jump out
of the pen and that is another reason
why I built my advanced for spin as you
saw to the to the right over there and
that will keep them in there and I again
if you click Next video after this video
you will be able to see how I made this
that horse in there will not be able to
get out so guys clicking the top right
to watch the next video and as always I
will see you later
you